Hey there and welcome
to another video.
So in this video we're going to go
through with another search topic.
Let's go ahead and draw the.
These are the blackboards
which I absolutely love.
They are super easy to teach.
So we're going to go
ahead and discuss about
numbers in this one.
Numbers are pretty interesting and we
do have limited type of numbers in
every programming concept in itself.
So the first number that we're going
to talk about are numbers, numbers
in general, but we do have a special
name that how we represent them.
They're called as integers.
And throughout the entire programming
course you're going to realize
that programmers actually love
to call things with a fancy names.
Integer is among one of them.
Now apart from integer, we
also will love to see about
another type of numbers that
we use known as Booleans.
These are true false value and they
are used quite a lot in figuring it
out, what to do, what not to do.
They just have two
values, true and false.
We'll actually see
the practical aspect of it.
Apart from this we also have
another one which is a real number.
So you might be wondering, hey, every
number is real, which one is fake?
By real number they actually want
to represent about the precision.
So these are floating point
numbers, also known as sometimes
and they simply represent
everything which is decimal.
So where the decimal is important
like stock price or rupees
or maybe temperature, where
the decimal is of super importance,
that's called as real number.
Yeah, programming people
love to deal with that.
Then since Python is very
friendly with scientists,
mathematicians, they also
support the concept of complex
numbers in which one part is
real, the another part is
fictitious the iota values.
We won't be going too much into
depth of it but still just want
to mention that complex number
do exist and they look something
like this like 2 plus 3J.
It's not really J, it's
iotas and all of that.
I don't want you to go in too much
depth of it but yes they do actually
exist in Python, only restricted
for very very rare use case.
We won't be probably going with that.
So we have integer, we have Boolean,
we have these real numbers
or floating point number
and we do have complex numbers.
So these are types of numbers
that we have and yes they do
each one of them have their own
fancy names so we actually
represent them just like this.
Super easy to have the diagrams
for each one of them
but where they shine actually
really is the code part.
So I will walk you through
with the code of it.
And yes, we'll be writing a lot
of it, but, it will be super easy.
So let's go ahead and close all
of this and let's go ahead
and move on to chapter three.
Chapter three py.
Let's write a lot of code
to understand what it means
by each one of them.
First of all, we are going to press
control slash or command slash.
This gives you a pound
sign automatically.
This means we can
actually comment things.
This will not be executed.
So these are comments, everybody
use them for notes, for mentioning
what you're doing in the code, or
to strategize write algorithms.
A lot of things.
It's like your rough part of
the code where it doesn't execute.
It's just a rough section that
you can write whatever you like.
So let's go ahead and start.
So let's just say I want
to create a variable also known
as reference in the memory.
So this is my, black table grams.
So how many grams
of the black T you want to have?
Let's just say I want to have a 14.
That means 14 grams.
And then we're going to go ahead
and say I want to have, ginger.
If I can write that.
Ginger grams.
How much ginger T you want?
Maybe you want three grams.
I know.
And now you want to add all of this.
This is super easy.
You can just go ahead and say
I want to grab total
grams, which is super easy.
Now that you have a reference
in the memory, you can just say
black teak in the grams and go
ahead and add ginger grams.
And that's it.
Now you have the total gram.
Super easy.
I can just go ahead and say print
a simple string in which we say
total grams of base tea is,
and then use this curly braces.
And then you can
inject variable here.
So we'll just go ahead and say
total grams and that's it.
So this is the basics
of how it actually works.
And maybe you want
to do more calculation.
For example, you want to go ahead
and calculate remaining, T.
So that can be easily calculated by
saying that, hey, black T in grams.
And we're going to subtract
it with, ginger grams.
And that's it.
We have got this one.
So we can actually use the same
line to represent that.
And we're going to say total
grams of remaining tea is.
Now don't go too much in.
What does it make sense or not?
That doesn't really matter here.
This is all what we have.
So just like this,
we can do addition.
Similarly you can do multiplication,
whatever you wish.
You can actually go
ahead and do that.
By the way, the sign
of multiplication is this asterisk
and you can multiply the things
however you like.
Whatever you like.
Super easy to work on
with nothing complex.
Python is one of the easiest
language now where it
actually shines a little bit.
And by the way, if you are big fan
of running everything, yes, we
can do that part, no worries.
We can simply go ahead and say
run the chapter three
and oops, forgot the extension.
There we go.
We have 17, we have 11.
No big deal.
14 plus 3, 17 minus that.
You get the idea.
It's super easy.
Now where Python actually
shines is the true division.
The division is actually a little
bit complex in the world of Python.
For example, if I just go ahead
and say we have milk liters,
let's just say we have 7 liters
of milk and we are servings.
Serving is 4 liter.
I don't know how we are serving,
but we are somehow doing a, serving
of four liters of milk.
So I will go ahead and say milk per
serving and I want to find out that
in order to find out that the
obvious answer is, you go ahead and
take the milk liter, you go ahead
and divide it by the servings and
you get this.
So super easy.
And I'll just go ahead and say
print again with a formatted string
and we're going to say milk per
serving is use the curly braces
and we'll say milk per serving.
That's it.
This is interesting.
We want to see the output
of it because this one will
be little bit interesting.
So we see that the milk
serving is 1.75 exactly
the way we want it to be.
But sometimes you want
not to be that exact.
So I'll give you another example.
Let's just say we have, total teabag.
And again, make sure you also
develop this habit of writing a lot
of things in the programming.
A lot of people just want to copy,
paste, no, write it on the keyboard.
It will develop a good habit.
Let's just say you have total teabag
and the pots that you have are four.
Again exactly same.
But we want to now calculate
that how much bags per pot.
So we'll just say bags per
pots or pot will be total
teabags that we have.
And this time we want to use two
slashes and you will see the meaning
of it in just a second.
As I mentioned, this is investigative
study and we will see what happens
when we go ahead and do this.
Let's Just say we format
this and we're going to say whole
tea bags per pot.
Pot is going to be like this
and we'll say bags per pot.
Now, you will notice a bit
of a strange that this time we get
just 1, not the 1.75.
All the numbers are same.
So the whole point of having two
slashes is I really don't care
about what comes after the decimal.
I'm not worried.
And there are a lot of cases where
you're not worried about it.
And that's totally okay.
And this is how it is
supposed to work.
Not every time you should be caring
about after decimal in the point
of money, in the point of stocks.
Yes, I do care, but there are also
times when I don't care about it.
And there's another
thing which we have.
Let's just say we have
a total, cardamom.
Cardamom pods are 10 with us.
Okay.
And we, want to have pods
per cup is three.
Okay, now you want to find out
what are the leftover pods.
So how you'll do this?
So we'll just go ahead and say
that leftover pods.
How do we calculate that?
That's interesting.
I want to calculate
the leftover ones.
And it's, super easy.
We can just divide this.
So after dividing whatever
is the remainder, that is
where we are worried about.
We want to have
the remainder, the leftover.
So this is interesting example.
Let's just go see how
we can calculate that.
So we have a total cardamom pods.
And if I go ahead and divide it
by the pods per cup, I hope
you can see the problem here.
There is a problem.
This is not an accurate code.
This will not give
you the exact result.
I want to say the leftover
pods or cardamom pod.
For the cardamom, I'll just write C.
Leftover cardamom pods
are leftover pods.
Can you detect what's
the problem in this code is?
It's a logical error.
So the Leftover pods are 3.3333.
Is this accurate?
Probably not.
Because if we are putting up
three pods per cup and we have
total pods of 10, so technically
it should be just one.
But when we divide it,
it just shows that, hey, now
the three division, is three.
That is, we get.
So each cup gets three pods.
So three, three and three.
That we already know.
But this is not accurate.
We want to see the leftover.
So for the leftover, in the world
of Python, we use something
known as modulo operator or known
as percentage, which gives you
the remainder of the division.
So notice here the leftover part is
one, which is exactly what we want.
So pretty good and pretty nice.
Now one last thing.
Not last, but still, before we
go back onto the blackboard,
I will show you that how it
actually works with the scaling.
So let's just say we want
to have an exponential power.
Just say we have a base
flavor strength.
There we go.
Base flavor strength is 2.
And what we want to do is we want to
have a scale factor, scale factor.
And I want to scale, have
a scale factor of three.
So now the powerful flavor,
how much is it going to scale?
I know this is a very weird
example, but, but I couldn't
come up anything better.
So let's just say we
have a powerful flavor.
And how do we calculate
the powerful flavor?
The whole point of this example is
to have the base flavor
strength and use two asterisks.
This means I want exponential.
So this will be scale, factor.
This means that we will have two
to the power of three.
That means two multiplied
by two multiplied by two, two
is multiplied three times.
That's the whole point.
Yeah, and we'll just go ahead
and duplicate this, move it up here
and we will just change this one to
scaled flavor strength is going
to be this one powerful flavor.
Very weird example,
doesn't make much of the sense.
But you get the point if we get this.
So it's super easy to work on with.
What it does is actually
it's the power.
So we simply say two
multiplied by two multiplied
by three multiplied by two.
I mean if this would be
scale would be four.
So we would add just one more time.
So whatever the number is, this is
being multiplied this many times.
That's the power.
Now one last thing that I
would love to show you.
This is rarely used, but I
would still love to show you.
So let's just say you have a value
where you want to see and want
to have total tea leaves harvested.
This is a big number
that you want to have.
What Python does, it allows you
to actually separate the number.
Let's just say you want
to write billion of the leaves.
So you can actually go ahead
and write billion just like this.
So I can have a 30 here
and I can have a 30 here.
This improves the readability,
doesn't really bother.
It's still being treated
as without underscore.
This is a unique thing
about the Python.
Just to improve the readability.
I hope this gives you an idea
how much important is readability
in the world of Python.
And yes, it's printable, in case
you want to know about that.
So I'll just go ahead
and say T leaves.
And we'll just go ahead and say
total T leaves harvested.
And yes, it doesn't impact anything.
The number still comes
up just like this.
So looks little bit weird, but a lot
of Python people love to do it.
And this is it.
This is what we have done in Integer.
So this part of the integer
is considered as done.
This is all about the integer.
You know, how to deal with them, how
to work, work with them.
Next up, let's take
the boolean as well.
So can we take this in the same file?
Probably use the next one.
Let's go ahead with the chapter four.
Yeah, we're quite far here.
So the Boolean is
actually pretty easy.
Let's just say I want to ask
question that is is boiling.
We ask a lot of questions like this
is boiling, for the T boiling.
I can write that.
So the answer of the boiling is
either true or it can be false.
The first letter is capital
and that's it.
That is it.
You ask a lot of questions like,
hey, is the user logged in?
Is the credit card there?
Is he a paid user?
A lot of these questions have
just true and false answers.
For example,
is the temperature hot outside?
Is the temperature above 42 degrees?
Is the temperature below 42 degrees?
A lot of this and then we simply
go ahead and say, let's just say we,
have another variable,
the stir count is five that you
want to stir it five times.
So one more interesting thing that
you will find that this true
is actually represented as 1
and the false is represented as 0.
This is also a short notation for it.
And to prove that this exists,
I can show you this, that sometimes
people does this, that total
actions, actions can actually
be represented like this.
And we can just have a stir
count and we can just go ahead
and add is boiling to it.
And to your surprise, this
true will automatically
get converted into one.
This is known as upcasting.
I'll write this as well.
Yeah, There is a fancy word for
almost everything in Python and yes,
this is exactly how you can
write your notes and comments.
So I think the better version would
be just to have a pound sign or
a hash and a space looks good.
And then I can just go ahead
and use a printing of
the formatted string and I can say
total action or actions.
And that would be total actions.
That is it.
So super nice.
And we'll use a Python 3
to run a chapter four.
There we go.
So we can see the total action is six
five plus one, which is true.
So this is really nice
and sometimes we actually use that.
And you can also do one more thing.
Let me show you one
interesting aspect of it.
Let's just say you say that
whether the milk is present
in the shop or not, this is zero
and this actually represents that
we don't have any milk.
So I'll just go ahead
and say no milk.
This is a representation of it.
Now you can actually go ahead
and print it into the Boolean
format just like this.
So I'll just go ahead
and say formatted
and we'll say is there milk?
And I can use this one.
And I have a strong keyword or
interesting keyword known as bool.
This is actually a method or
a function and anything that has
a function it has two parentheses.
And in here I can pass
on the variable milk present.
It automatically will
convert zero to false.
Let me go ahead and try that.
And yes, it actually does that.
And let's try it for one as
well, because I know you
are wondering that as well.
Run this.
And yeah, it is true.
So pretty good.
What happens when it's not one?
What happens when it is 11?
That's a very interesting answer.
It is still true.
What happens if I just go ahead
and give it a name like Hitesh?
What happens in this case?
That's very interesting as well.
This is still true.
So there are only a handful of values
which are represented as false.
0 is one of them.
But we do have more as well.
Like there is a one
more keyword none.
What does this gets converted when
you want to convert that that
obviously is converted into false.
We will There's nothing much,
although you have gone through
with almost all of them.
But yes, I usually hate to actually
convert things like that.
I convert them when I'm
absolutely sure that this is
the result I'm probably get.
Or these are the only two option
which will give me the result.
This is really nice.
And since we are talking
about the Boolean, there's one
more thing which we should
really talk about when we are
talking about the Boolean,
which is logical operations.
And yeah, it's actually super easy.
Don't worry, don't sweat it out.
We'll actually cover
this part here as well.
What are these logical operation.
So logical operations are
of just majorly of 3 type
in the python which is and there is
or and there is not
what do you mean by all of them?
Simply say somebody is asking
you for, a T or coffee.
So when somebody asks you
for a T or coffee, you simply
say, hey, T or coffee.
You say hey, I'll pick only one.
And when somebody says, hey, we
would love to have T and biscuit,
and means hey, we would love
to have both T and biscuit.
That's it.
And not simply just
converts true to false.
False to true.
That's it.
Yeah.
I hope you remember
the examples as well.
So the one example that we worked
on is simply T or coffee.
So when somebody says T or coffee,
this likely means that we are
talking about the or part of it.
And when somebody is saying T
and biscuit, that means,
hey, both needs to be true.
T and cookies.
I like cookies.
So when somebody says T and cookies,
we'll just go ahead and say,
hey, this is the and part.
This simply means
any one can be true.
That is totally fine for our program.
We'll still move on.
This means both booth, not Booth,
both, Both should be true.
So this is the meaning of it.
Let's go ahead and now
work on with this.
You will see a variety of examples
like hey, is user logged in?
Is user having the card information?
Then only I, will allow him
to check out lot of such incidents.
In this case, since we are
making the T shop, let's just
say water hot is true
as well as, T added is false.
So what do you think should happen
in the variable can serve?
So should I be serving the T
when the water is hot
and I haven't added the T?
If you haven't added
the tea, that is not tea.
So I'll, just go ahead and say
water should be hot
and the T should be added.
Then only it makes a T.
So I hope you get the answer of it.
Pretty nice.
Good example this time.
So we'll say can serve
Chai will not call it tea.
We'll call it chai.
We'll use this variable
and we can see can serve.
That's it.
Super easy to work on
with can serve chai.
False.
You cannot serve it.
You haven't added the T.
And once you have added
the tree tea, that means
hey, this is all good now.
Now probably you should be able
to serve and yes, you are.
You can now serve this one.
So this is pretty nice.
All right, I think this
part is all done now.
The only thing that's remaining
for us is the real numbers or
the floating point numbers.
These are very interesting, examples.
We'll take them as a separate
example in the chapter five.
Let's go ahead and create this.
Usually people just prefer to create
one video for each one of them.
I prefer to have a bit
of a longer video.
It's okay to have longer videos
as long as you are enjoying.
So I don't find it as
a hesitation or a problem.
People get panics out when the video
goes about two minutes of length.
I don't.
All right, so let's just say
we want to have chapter five.
I'll rename this chapter five.py.
there we go.
All right, so what does this means?
Real number?
Real number simply means I want
to have precision in my program.
Let's just say I call this as.
I'll show you a very
interesting example.
So let's just say I have an ideal
temperature which is 95.5.
Of course this is all in Celsius
and let's just say current
temp and the current temperature is
a little bit more.
So we have 95 dot and we have four.
A lot of nines.
I don't know how many,
but a lot of them.
So what does this means?
I want to have approximation
and in this case I'll just go ahead
and say let's print all of them.
So print.
I will go ahead and say ideal temp
is going to be ideal temp
and we'll have duplicate of this.
This one should be current
temperature and we'll have another
one which is going to be difference
difference, difference temperature.
And for the difference temperature
I would say that we will take
the ideal temperature and we're
going to go ahead and subtract
the current temperature with it.
This is an interesting
activity to do.
So let's go ahead and call
Python, investigate this,
what happens when I do so.
And we're going to go ahead
and say chapter five.
I'm pretty sure you're also excited.
Hey, what is about to happen?
How can I go ahead and work
on with this?
Now notice you can see
the difference temperature is 9.
You didn't expected that.
Yeah, of course you
didn't expected that.
You expected 0.0 or something.
This is not exactly zero because
sometimes the precision are there
and the way how Python calculate
the precision is bit different.
This actually drastically changed
when I go ahead and remove
this much of the precision and try
to run this program again.
This time we get 0.01.
So this is much more
of an expected number.
So when you want to deal with
higher numbers there are packages,
as I mentioned, we borrow
the code from somebody else's
who has written the code.
We simply take that and work
on more precision.
Python is a very favored
language for scientific
computings and mathematician,
so it does that one.
Another interesting thing that you
can do is you can actually go ahead
and say hey, I want to use sys.
And then you can use floatinfo.
This is the package.
And to actually import this piece
of code, this is the code
somebody else has written.
It's not written by me.
So all you just go ahead and say
I want to import the sys.
We will learn how we
can actually do this.
This is a code we are bringing
in that we haven't written,
but Python has written it.
So we can actually borrow this.
And this gives me a float information
that hey, what's the float
information you can give me about?
It gives that, hey, the float
information is like this, the max.
This is the number
that you can go for.
The maxed exponential you can go for.
And this actually varies
on system to system that how much
calculation you can do.
More ram, more memory,
the system float.
This will give you totally
different result in your case
compared to mine case.
So we explored pretty nice.
I hope you enjoyed this part as well.
And again we actually can have
a lot of things, moving on.
We have fractions as well, we can
work with the decimals as well.
A whole lot of things actually
work in the world of Python.
I probably don't want to go into
that, but can I show you a little
bit of this just by importing this.
All right, so you are going to see
that when you want to deal up with
the fractions, Python actually go
ahead and say that hey, from a
package file from known as
fractions, fractions, you can go
ahead and import fractions.
This is a common syntax
now you will be able to deal up with
a whole lot of fractions,
to the power of six and seven.
So six decimal point numbers,
you can go ahead and do that.
Not only this, we have whole
powerful decimals as well.
So similar to this we
have from decimal.
Yep, from decimal go
ahead and import decimal.
And we actually can actually
typecast them as well as D.
I want to call this as D.
Weird syntax, but they do exist.
I'll still show you on the Google
as well that hey, they do exist,
decimal in Python.
And we actually will go
ahead and see this.
Yeah this is the one
we have the documentation.
So decimal, decimal point, all
of this right now you don't have
to do much into this but yes, just
remember that these Things do exist
and they have a huge importance now.
You can see that they can
actually deal up with a huge number
of after decimal values.
Yeah, they are designed
just for this.
We won't be using them right
now, but it's actually important
that we know about them.
That hey, a floating send decimal.
They have fractions,
they have decimal.
You can consist, you can borrow
whenever you need more power,
anytime from the system.
But we can work with that
complex number.
We are not going to touch because
this is bit of out of the scope as
of now for this course.
But just to give you an idea,
yes, complex number do exist.
For the complex number, usually
we bring out fractions and that
library actually works way
better in that I haven't dealt
much with the complex numbers,
especially the imaginary numbers
usually in the university
scientists and all of them, they
work more on it.
I don't have much experience with it.
I'll be just honest
with you on this part.
But yes, they do exist.
All right, so quite a lot about
the numbers that we have dealt up.
I hope you have enjoyed
this long lecture.
Bit long, but very valuable.
We have learned so much, we
have written so much code.
Go ahead, go through with this
code entire part and I'm
pretty sure you'll love it.
Don't forget to rate us and let's
catch up in the next video.